hi I'm Kevin from Kevin Powell Co where
I help teach people how to make the web
and how to make it look good while
they're at it with weekly tips tricks
and tutorials and you're watching 100
days of SEO today we are talking about
how to create the search monopoly if you
are new here my name is Brendan huffard
I'm the creator of SEO for the rest of
us and also 100 days of SEO I'm going to
leverage all of my ability of just being
a regular person and also a former
teacher I spent a decade in the
classroom and also all of my experience
as the SEO director of click studios
just to help you demystify and really
understand topics related to SEO aka
search engine optimization maybe those
are backwards maybe it's a search engine
optimization aka SEO it's fine though
we're keep it rolling here's what we're
going to talk about today on tutorial
Thursday so some key points when we talk
about creating a search Monacan monopoly
we're gonna talk about what it is why it
works I'm gonna give you two good
examples when not to use this strategy
so my examples of one to use it I'm
gonna teach you how to use it and then
I'm gonna give you a couple case studies
of where I've seen it used really
effectively so let's talk about this
first what is a search monopoly so this
is a great definition that I am totally
stealing from Nick Eubanks from the
future he says it is moving past the
vanity of having your website's URL
ranking for your priority keywords and
instead accepting that Google ranks
different types of content for different
types of keywords and the current type
of content on your website may not be
able to rank for the terms you're
targeting so it is using other websites
that you do not own to rank for keywords
that you can't for and we'll talk about
some reasons why that you can't rank for
with your own website and it takes a lot
of humility but it is extremely
effective this is also called barnacle
and parasite SEO but barnacles and
parasites are gross and I really wanted
to be able to use pictures of monopolies
the whole time and I just love that idea
of like this is
monopoly strategy we can call it
parasite SEO we can call it barnacle SEO
it's called parasite and barnacle
because you're literally attaching like
a parasite or a barnacle to another
high-ranking more authoritative website
which again is fine but not really what
we're going for here because that's not
the goal like this is only half way and
you're not a parasite you're not a
barnacle you're adding value and the
goal of this is not to just attach
yourself the goal is to recreate a
monopoly in search right
it's not about ranking number one again
from Nick Eubanks it's not about ranking
number one it's not only about ranking
number one it is about ranking number
one but it is about ranking number one
number two and number three right what
if you could have three guest posts or
three articles what if the top three
articles for one of your main search
terms let's say your search term is CRM
software what if the top three search
results all within those pieces of
content listed you as number one then
technically you have the top three
search results without even having to
rank your own website it is extremely
extremely powerful as a strategy let's
talk about why it works sometimes search
you know Google wants a neutral party
when you build content in another
website like a good example of these
would be anything that reviews stuff
whether it's a coffee review website or
you know if you're on Huffington Post
and they have an article about like the
top ten pieces of wedding jewelry or you
have you know something more in the tech
side of things like a g2 crowd or a cap
Tara they want a neutral party a
seemingly neutral party to rank this
stuff they also want you know these
websites are also usually extremely
authoritative and then finally a large
authoritative website can handle getting
a bunch of links maybe your website is
brand new or maybe you don't want to
risk trying to push rankings too fast on
your website I can have a guest post on
a big website I can have it in article
that features me on a big website and I
can hammer that big website cuz they're
ready have a hundred thousand links from
different websites I can link to my post
50 times without it you know fluctuating
that on their end it won't hurt their
website versus my website file
the sudden build 50 you know let's say I
only have 200 websites linking to me if
all of a sudden I build 50 new links to
one post to get it to rank Google is
gonna be like whoa that's too much and
you can really get into a bad situation
when not to use the search monopoly
strategy so if you can't find a related
website if you cannot find a related
website that is more authoritative than
you this is not a good strategy to use
if ranking for this is going to give you
vanity but it will not drive revenue the
link matters but also the branding and
the awareness matter if this is
something that won't drive revenue for
example if I was HR F's who's one of the
sponsors of a hundred days of SEO
ranking number one for SEO might drive
revenue but it's not really a direct
path like you know it's just a I have a
great article on this called why rank
you know I don't bother ranking for
trophy keywords we want rankings that
are actually gonna drive revenue so if I
was click studios and I was a Chicago
web design company yeah I want to rank
number one for Chicago web design but I
also want to rank number one on up city
I want to rank number one on clutch I
want to rank number one on all of these
things so that when I rank number one
I'm also on the first page five of those
results are me that's gonna drive way
more business we want to monopolize it
and then also if the effort is greater
than the reward right if you are a local
you know diner monopolizing search is
not really gonna be worth the reward
whereas if you're a web design company
it really would be here's when to use
the search monopoly strategy and I'm
using some good examples here of
websites that you can use in this as
well YouTube medium and Korra it's
really the only use I think medium has
anymore
number one you have a direct path to
revenue getting this placement ranking
number one for this term this is a
revenue driver this will drive people
not just the link that matters but also
when I'm on this other website people
will click through and they will become
customers and I'll give you some case
studies of this here in a second but
also you have a good list of target
sites and you can build links if you
don't know how to build links like this
is not the strategy for you
yeah like just worry about getting your
own stuff done learn how to build links
effectively you don't have to even learn
to do it at scale but you don't want to
spend like two months building a link to
somebody else's website you know if that
if your process is still takes a while
you want to really consider when the
strategy starts to make sense so this is
my kind of like if I were to give you a
really basic understanding of how to
monopolize search right we don't want to
rank our own website so here's what I do
before I even get started I study what's
already ranking this is such a crucial
step that so many people miss so I'm
gonna say it again
study what is already ranking google the
thing you want to rank for so many
people just jump into SEM rush and HR
f's and whatever other tool and they
forget to just Google what is already
ranking and look at that then before you
start writing anything pitch a site that
ranks for related keywords see if you
can get a guest post there see if one of
the writers that writes a lot about it
for that website is open to including
you in their next article then conduct
some topical and keyword research write
a badass article and then just chill
chill for a minute and just wait see
where it kind of settles out are you on
the first page you know again like if I
if it's on a really authoritative
website that's really gonna help you but
like see where you end up ranking I have
tons of guest posts that I am constantly
trying to like push up in rankings I
have a great guest post on epic content
marketing on fizzle Co and I'd be lying
if I don't want that I want that to rank
number one for content marketing I do
why because like I want to be number one
now is brendon Hufford com gonna rank
number one for content marketing no
fizzles older it's more authoritative
and you know it's just one benefit of
doing guest posting and things like that
and it doesn't again it doesn't have to
be guest posts but this is kind of my
tactic and how where I would do it if I
was just starting out if I were you and
you're starting out wait and then only
build links if necessary see where you
kind of settle out on there
now here's advance so you've heard me
mention Nick Eubanks a couple times here
he is with his photo at the top this is
how Nick recommends doing it identifying
your top fifty to a hundred highest
priority and I put in their value
keywords these are again
they're not high priority because of
their search volume are there whatever
these are gonna be value driven these
are gonna be ones that can actually
drive revenue for you drive conversions
and drive sales then scape scrape page 1
of Google for all the ranking URLs again
I like to use href so I look at the top
10 but you can also in your settings
build that out so page 1 can include 20
up to 100 Nick then pulls back baseline
trust and authority metrics and there's
some examples here mapping a content
type to each again like we want to make
sure that our content type what we are
creating is the same type of content
that Google wants to rank for that right
we don't want to create some sort of
long-form instructional if what they're
looking for is really like a comparative
analysis of things so then number four
sort by content type create a new list
for each use that data to inform the SEO
concept map and get crackin again like
this is more advanced you also have the
option to just go with a more basic idea
but it's they both work they both work
it just depends on where you're at are
you doing this out loan or you a
consultant are you at a small agency or
maybe only a couple clients and then are
you doing this at scale you have a big
team you have access to a bunch of tools
and you have really good processes in
place there's other tactics too and I'm
gonna highlight this is Ryan Stewart
here on the right I'm gonna highlight
Ryan a couple more in a couple more
examples but here's how Ryan uses the
search monopoly strategy attacking
branded keywords so I'm pitch box and
people are googling like pitch box
alternatives well I'm not gonna rank for
like pitch box alternatives on pitch box
com because Google knows like this is
just you talking to yourself it's bias
but if we can have a neutral website
that has an article on pitch box
alternatives if we could have that
beyond I don't G to crowd all of a
sudden like you can attack those branded
searches and you could do it for your
competitors so one of their competitors
is probably like buzz stream buzz stream
alternatives would be a great article
that we could get up somewhere else that
then features picks pitch boxes like the
favored kind of result or favored tool
to use as a buzz stream alternative then
stealing review searches so people
invariably when you get to scale they'll
look for reviews of your companies
people look for reviews at Google for
Google click studios reviews that Google
pitch box reviews and hrs reviews and
flywheel reviews but if I'm if I'm
flywheel which is who I host with if you
know if I'm for I will then flywheel
reviews might be on flywheel site they
might be able to rank for that but if
it's on a more authoritative site it
would be good to also have that in there
as well and then finally leveraging the
reach of e-commerce giant so if you're
an e-commerce company or thinking of
starting your own store
you can then pursue and this is a great
monopoly strategy I want to rank my
stuff within Amazon
I want to rank number one in Amazon
because we know if you've ever googled
anything related to shopping you know
Google loves showing those Amazon links
if I rank well in Amazon the likelihood
of my Amazon store ranking better in
Google is you're gonna rank way better
with an Amazon store than with your
brand new Shopify website so it's
something to think about these are just
other tactics an example so Ryan
literally wrote this article in 2015 on
Moz called why I stopped selling SEO
services and you should to this article
written in 2015 we're in 2019 this
article still ranks for SEO services so
you can see here on the Left we have ads
we have a number one up here
Main Street host SEO services so again
like affordable you know whatever
whatever here's local ones based on
where I live you can see Northwest
Indiana and Chicago here but then you
see Ryan's article this has produced so
many leads for them it pushes back to
the web risk blog and like it just the
results and everything have been
absolutely huge for them it's huge like
the number of sessions and the number of
users and then the number of conversions
right like it's absolutely massive the
number of conversions they were getting
directly from this article on somebody
else's website another example from this
I'm gonna use another one from Ryan
because he's really good at this and I
know it's in the SEO space and talking
about SEO in the SEO space is kind of
stupid sometimes
but it's a good example because like
look he wrote this article about white
hat link building 19 link building
strategies that work in 2018 great he
ranks number 27 for white hat link
building but his guest post on href
where he wrote in 2017 ranks number one
so this is a 2018 article
here's a 2017 article so an older
article but on a more authoritative
domain ranks number one now just imagine
if you're not in the marketing space how
powerful this is people in the SEO space
people in the marketing space are going
so hard at this they're already using
this tactic this is a known thing but
what if you're not in the SEO space the
opportunity is so big it's so big
wouldn't somebody love it if you would
come to them and just say like hey I
write really good I love to write a
guest post for you I want to rank it
number one in Google for these things so
all of that traffic will go to your
website that's what I want I want you to
get all of the traffic but I want them
to see my article they're like would you
be interested in me creating an insanely
high-quality piece of content for you
that will rank really well in Google all
of a sudden people are just like yeah
like I want that I want something really
amazing so don't don't leave this is
kind of corny but like don't leave your
results to chance right like the
monopoly strategy is so powerful whether
you're starting out like I don't have a
good website so I'm just trying to get
ahead or if you're a veteran and you're
like I'm already ranking for this but I
don't want to just rank number one I
want to rank number one two three four
and five and get almost a hundred
percent of the clicks that's when this
really becomes powerful I hope this has
been extremely helpful please subscribe
if you're listening on the podcast
please subscribe if you are watching on
youtube I would love it if you would
give it a thumbs up and if you're
watching on youtube please leave a
comment and if you're listening on the
podcast for sure send me a tweet and
answer this one question how can you use
the search monopoly strategy in your
business like what business are you in
and do you think you can use this
strategy and if you don't think you can
please tweet me or leave a comment below
if you're watching the video because I
want to be able to help you I want to
answer that question for you hey Brendon
I don't think this will work for me
because XY and Z and
want to help you figure out exactly how
this strategy can work for you
I've been Brendan Hufford don't forget
to work hard be nice to people and don't
get too lost trying to create something
that matters
[Music]